Javascript is a single threaded programming language.
What does that mean.
Well being single threaded means that only one set of instructions is executed at a time.
It's not doing multiple things.
And the biggest way to check that a language is single threaded is well it has only one call stack.
This one call stack allows us to run code one at a time.
We're never running functions in parallel as you saw the stack keeps growing as we push new functions
on the stack and then we pop them one at a time.
Now initially in 1995 when javascript was born this made things easy for implementation and for developers
using the language right.
Because javascript was only initially a language useful for adding interactions on a web page such as
form validations or clicking a button nothing really required having more than just a single thread
a good way to think about it is like this single threaded means I'm the JavaScript engine and I'm eating
with one hand putting food in my mouth that is the function and then use that same hand to grab the
next food when I'm done chewing my food.
I can't put any more things in my mouth until I'm done chewing and I also can't grab anymore food until
I finish chewing.
It's single threaded.
One thing at a time.
And because of this javascript is synchronous that is wanted to time in order that it appears only one
thing can happen at the time.
You might be asking yourself that doesn't sound super fast does it.
Let's tackle that in the next video.